# The dataset interface

This page is meant for *contributors* to the package, and specifically provides
information on the interface, what to overload, and why.

All of the methods that form the interface have two versions: one for current
data, and one for future data. The default behavior of the interface is for the
version on future data to fall back to the version for current data (*i.e.* we
assume that future data are provided with the same format as current data). This
means that most of the functions will not need to be overloaded when adding a
provider with support for future data.

The interface is built around the idea that *Julia* will use the most specific
version of a method first, and resort to the less generic ones when there are
multiple matches. A good example is the `BioClim` dataset, provided by a number
of sources, that often has different URLs and filenames. This is handled (in
*e.g.* `CHELSA2`) by writing a method for the general case of any dataset
`RasterData{CHELSA2,T}` (using a `Union` type), and then a specific method on
`RasterData{CHELSA2,BioClim}`. In the case of `CHELSA2`, the general method
handles all datasets *except* `BioClim`, which makes the code much easier to
write and maintain.

## Compatibility between datasets and providers

The inner constructor for `RasterData` involves a call to `provides`, which must
return `true` for the type to be constructed. The generic method for `provides`
returns `false`, so additional provider/dataset pairs *must* be overloaded to
return `true` in order for the corresponding `RasterData` type to exist.

In practice, especially when there are multiple datasets for a single provider,
the easiest way is to define a `Union` type and overload based on membership to
this union type, as touched upon earlier in this document.

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.provides
```

## Type of object downloaded

The specification about the format of downloaded files is managed by
`downloadtype`. By default, we assume that a request to a usable dataset is
returning a single file, but this can be overloaded for the providers who return
an archive.

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.downloadtype
```

The return type of the `downloadtype` must be one of the `RasterDownloadType`
enum, which can be extended if adding a new provider requires a new format for
the download.

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.RasterDownloadType
```

## Type of object stored

The specification about the format of the information contained in the
downloaded type is managed by `filetype`. By default, we assume that a request
to a usable dataset is returning a `tiff`, but this can be overloaded for the
providers who return data in another format. Note that *if* the download type is
an archive, the file type describes the format of the files within the archive.

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.filetype
```

The return type of the `filetype` must be one of the `RasterFileType`
enum, which can be extended if adding a new provider requires a new format for
the download.

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.RasterFileType
```

## Available resolutions

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.resolutions
```

## Available layers

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.layers
SimpleSDMDatasets.layerdescriptions
```

## Available months

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.months
```

## Available years

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.timespans
```

## Additional keyword arguments

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.extrakeys
```

## URL for the data to download

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.source
```

## Path to the data locally

```@docs
SimpleSDMDatasets.destination
```