README.md, before:

# SpeciesDistributionToolkit

🗺️ `SpeciesDistributionToolkit.jl` is a collection of Julia packages forming a
toolkit meant to deal with (surprise!) species distribution data. Specifically,
the goal of these packages put together is to provide a consistent way to handle
occurrence data, put them on a map, and make it interact with environmental
information.

![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/poisotlab/speciesdistributiontoolkit.jl?filter=v*&style=flat-square&label=Main%20package) [![DOC](https://img.shields.io/badge/Manual-teal?style=flat-square)](https://poisotlab.github.io/SpeciesDistributionToolkit.jl) [![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cite_the_paper-10.21105%2Fjoss.02872-orange?style=flat-square)](https://joss.theoj.org/papers/10.21105/joss.02872) ![Lifecycle:Maturing](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lifecycle-Maturing-007EC6?style=flat-square)

## Want to help?

🧑‍💻 To get a sense of the next steps and help with the development, see the 
[issues/bugs tracker](https://github.com/orgs/PoisotLab/projects/3).

🤓 From a technical point of view, this *repository* is a [Monorepo][mnrp]
consisting of several related packages to work with species distribution data.
These packages were formerly independent and tied together with moxie and
`Require`, which was less than ideal. All the packages forming the toolkit share
a version number (which was set based on the version number of the eldest
package, `SimpleSDMLayers`), and the toolkit itself has its own version number.

[mnrp]: https://monorepo.tools/

Commit message:

Doc improvements for the top-level package (#305)
* doc(sdt): polygons

* doc(sdt): zonal

* doc(sdt): remove GBIF docstring

* doc(sdt): README

* doc(faux): documenter

* doc(gbif): documenter

* doc(occ): documenter

* doc(all): documenter

* doc(gbif): bug

* doc(all): fix HTML

* doc(phylopic): test

* test(sdt): sidebar

* doc(sdt): sidebar howto

* doc(phylopic): simplify

* doc(sdt): sidebar

* doc(phylopic): autodoc

* doc(gbif): trim

* doc(all): migrate

* doc: index files

* bug(sdt): records

* doc: file paths

* doc: maybe it builds?

* chore: .gitignore

* doc: change the path in the sidebar(s)/

* doc: add tutorials to navbar

* doc: sidebar for tutorials

* doc: links for contribution

* doc: collapsed docstrings in how-to

* doc: move short tutorials to how-to

* doc: forgotten comma

* doc: wrong url for changelogs

* doc: move files around

* doc: move stuff

* doc: ref sidebar reorg

* doc: simplify

* doc: simplify

* doc: remove old pkg

* doc: pretty tables

* doc: update novelty tutorial

* doc: index pages updates

* doc: smaller extant for the novelty demo

* doc: bioclim tutorial

* doc: fix sidebar bug

* doc: update novelty tutorial

* doc: update sdemo intro

* doc: fix the issue with pretty tables

* doc: split fauxcurrences in sections

* chore: remove debugging print

* doc: minimal doc for component packages

* doc: remove duplicate pages

* doc: warnonly

* chore: remove commented out code

README.md, after:

# SpeciesDistributionToolkit

🗺️ `SpeciesDistributionToolkit.jl` is a collection of Julia packages forming a
toolkit meant to deal with (surprise!) species distribution data.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> All of the packages are installed automatically, so you can simply do
> `import Pkg; Pkd.add("SpeciesDistributionToolkit")` and get started.

Specifically, the goal of these packages put together is to provide a consistent way to handle
occurrence data, put them on a map, and make it interact with environmental
information. 

The up-to-date documentation for the *stable* version can be found [here](https://poisotlab.github.io/SpeciesDistributionToolkit.jl). It contains tutorials showcasing the package in action, how-to guids to serve as a quick reference, and links to the documentation for all methods in the component packages.

## Want to help?

🧑‍💻 To get a sense of the next steps and help with the development, see the  [issues and bugs tracker](https://github.com/orgs/PoisotLab/projects/3).

💬 Reach out using the [Discussions](https://github.com/PoisotLab/SpeciesDistributionToolkit.jl/discussions) tab on this repo!
