docs/src/index.md, before:

# Species Distributions Toolkit

This package is a wrapper around a series of tools, *a.k.a.* component packages,
that are meant to simplify the building of species distribution models. The
models themselves are *not* part of this package, which is intended to take the
tedium out of data preparation.

In particular, the package offers

- a wrapper around the GBIF occurrences API to access occurrence data
  (`GBIF.jl`)
- ways to generate pseudo-absences based on a series of heuristics
- ways to generate fake occurrences with statistical properties similar to
  actual occurrences (`Fauxcurrences.jl`)
- a simple way to represent layers as either mutable or immutable objects (`SimpleSDMLayers.jl`)
- a way to collect historic and future climate and land-use data to feed into the models (`SimpleSDMDatasets.jl`)
- interfaces to Makie for plotting and data visualisation

This documentation is therefore pretty vast: it offers an in-depth explanation of what the
component packages are doing and how they work, discusses the interactions between these
packages, and offers a series of illustrations which includes some examples of models of
species distributions.

If you want to contribute to the project, the best way is likely to have a look
at the [development dashboard](https://github.com/orgs/PoisotLab/projects/3), or
look for [possible first
PRs](https://github.com/PoisotLab/SpeciesDistributionToolkit.jl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).

Commit message:

doc: re-frame the doc as user stories + manual

docs/src/index.md, after:

# Species Distributions Toolkit

This package is a wrapper around a series of tools, *a.k.a.* component packages,
that are meant to simplify the construction of species distribution models. The
models themselves are *not* part of this package, which is intended to take the
tedium out of data preparation.

In particular, the package offers

- a wrapper around the GBIF occurrences API to access occurrence data
  (`GBIF.jl`)
- ways to generate pseudo-absences based on a series of heuristics
- ways to generate fake occurrences with statistical properties similar to
  actual occurrences (`Fauxcurrences.jl`)
- a simple way to represent layers as either mutable or immutable objects (`SimpleSDMLayers.jl`)
- a way to collect historic and future climate and land-use data to feed into the models (`SimpleSDMDatasets.jl`)
- interfaces to Makie for plotting and data visualisation
- an integration of the phylopic API to get illustrations for organisms

This documentation is therefore pretty vast: it offers an in-depth explanation of what the
component packages are doing and how they work, discusses the interactions between these
packages, and offers a series of user stories which includes some examples of models of
species distributions.

If you want to contribute to the project, the best way is likely to have a look
at the [development dashboard](https://github.com/orgs/PoisotLab/projects/3), or
look for [possible first
PRs](https://github.com/PoisotLab/SpeciesDistributionToolkit.jl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).
