SimpleSDMLayers/README.md, before:

## Simple layers for Species Distributions Modelling

This package offers very simple types and functions to interact with
bioclimatic data and the output of species distribution models.

For now, installation requires to use the github repo as the package is not tagged yet:

~~~ julia
] add https://github.com/EcoJulia/SimpleSDMLayers.jl#master
~~~

### Type system

All types belong to the abstract `SimpleSDMLayer`, and are organised in the
same way: a `grid` field storing a matrix of data (of any type!), and the
`left`, `right`, `bottom`, and `top` coordinates (as floating point values).

The two core types of the package are `SimpleSDMPredictor` and
`SimpleSDMResponse`. The only difference between the two is that predictors
are immutable, but responses are.

### Methods

Most of the methods are overloads from `Base`. In particular, `SimpleSDMLayer`
objects can be accessed like normal two-dimensional arrays, in which case
they return an object of the same type if called with a range, and the value
if called with a single position.

### Bioclimatic data

#### WorldClim 2.0

The `worldclim` function will get a range, or an array of indices, and return
the corresponding bioclim 2.0 layers at the specified `resolution`. For
example, to get the annual temperature, and annual precipitation:

~~~ julia
temperature, precipitation = worldclim([1,12])
~~~

By default, the function will return the layers for the entire globe, and they
can be cropped later. The layers are returned as `SimpleSDMPredictor` objects.

Commit message:

:memo: add CROP to README

SimpleSDMLayers/README.md, after:

## Simple layers for Species Distributions Modelling

This package offers very simple types and functions to interact with
bioclimatic data and the output of species distribution models.

For now, installation requires to use the github repo as the package is not tagged yet:

~~~ julia
] add https://github.com/EcoJulia/SimpleSDMLayers.jl#master
~~~

### Type system

All types belong to the abstract `SimpleSDMLayer`, and are organised in the
same way: a `grid` field storing a matrix of data (of any type!), and the
`left`, `right`, `bottom`, and `top` coordinates (as floating point values).

The two core types of the package are `SimpleSDMPredictor` and
`SimpleSDMResponse`. The only difference between the two is that predictors
are immutable, but responses are.

### Methods

Most of the methods are overloads from `Base`. In particular, `SimpleSDMLayer`
objects can be accessed like normal two-dimensional arrays, in which case
they return an object of the same type if called with a range, and the value
if called with a single position.

It is also possible to crop a layer based on a bounding box:

~~~ julia
p[(left, right), (bottom, top)]
~~~

### Bioclimatic data

#### WorldClim 2.0

The `worldclim` function will get a range, or an array of indices, and return
the corresponding bioclim 2.0 layers at the specified `resolution`. For
example, to get the annual temperature, and annual precipitation:

~~~ julia
temperature, precipitation = worldclim([1,12])
~~~

By default, the function will return the layers for the entire globe, and they
can be cropped later. The layers are returned as `SimpleSDMPredictor` objects.
