# Fauxcurrences.jl

This package is a *clean-room* re-write in Julia of most of the functionalities
of the [`fauxcurrence` package for R][paper]. The original code is licensed
under the GPL, and this package is licensed under the MIT. For this reason, the
original code, and any document distributed with it, has not been consulted
during the implementation; the work is entirely based on the published article.

[paper]: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/ecog.05880

**Why?**

Interoperability: this package uses `SimpleSDMLayers`, `Distances`, and `GBIF`
as backends, making it fit very snuggly with the rest of the (Eco)Julia
ecosystem.

Licensing: the package uses the more liberal MIT license, imposing fewer
constraints on contributors and users.

Expandability: the package is built on a lot of modular functions, to ensure
that custom workflows can be built.

Performance: by relying on pre-allocated matrices, the package is fairly fast.

**Changes specific to this package**

The distance between distribution is measured using the square root of the
ranged Jensen-Shannon divergence (the original package uses the Kullback-Leibler
divergence) - this measure gives a value in 0-1 *and* is a true metric. The JS
distance is symmetrical for any two distributions, but more importantly, never
returns an infinite value when one density is 0 and the other is not. For sparse
datasets and/or clumped occurrences, this means that JS will return a value that
can still be compared by the optimizer. Note also that for a JS distance of x,
the equivalent KL divergence would be of the order of xÂ².

The number of points to simulate can be fixed *per species* - this is important
because we may want to benchmark algorithms under the unrealistic assumption
that the sampling effort is the same.

The bootstrap phase (generation of the initial null) picks distances from the
distance matrix, rather than performing an estimation of the underlying
distribution. This is mostly because the points will be refined anyways, so the
faster solution was selected.

The constraints on simulated points are as follow: the intra-specific distance
cannot be larger than the observed intra-specific distance, and the
inter-specific distance cannot be larger than the observed pairwise
inter-specific distance. This is motivated by two reasons. First, this makes the
binning of the distributions a lot more stable, as the upport bound of the
distribution remains the same. Second, this ensures that the optimizer does not
"cheat" by over-expanding the simulated points.

During optimization, the *only* criteria that is checked is that the average of
all divergences (intra-specific and pairwise inter-specific) must decrease; this
can result in *increases* of the distance for one or more of the component
distributions. There is no indication in the original manuscript of what
constitutes an acceptable move, and the clean-room re-implementation means that
the code was not consulted.

`Fauxcurrences.jl` does not offer non-pairwsie inter-specific distances. This is
a direct consequence of the next point.

`Fauxcurrences.jl` offers the ability to weigh the different matrices (intra v.
inter). In the default configuration, all *matrices* have the same weight. An
alternative calibration scheme is to give an equivalent weight to the sum of the
*n* intra-specific matrices, and of the *n(n-1)/2* inter-specific matrices.
Additional calibrations can reflect other biological constraints.